# Discover

'''This document describes the Discover feature of Status. Ethereum
hosts its own community, and with Discover we want to connect Ethereum
users with other Ethereum users - to trade and exchange ideas.
Ultimately this will reduce transaction costs and increase the utility
of ETH. '''

## What it Does

Discover is done through a users Status (hence the application name).
This status is a 140 char sub-headline to a users profile which can be
seen on my profile, user profile and discover screens.

A status is private and not shared with anyone except their immediate
contacts, unless a \#hashtag is introduced. These \#hashtags are locally
searchable on the discover screen.

## How It's Built

The Discover application protocol is built ontop of Whisper, possibly
utilising our messaging protocol and is implemented in
status-im/status-lib

Periodically the client should request from it's contacts, a package of
statuses that is an aggregate compilation of discoverable statuses
(created using the specifications below), this package should contain no
more than 100-500 statuses and the period in which the client requests
the package is after when the user is back online and/or after waiting X
hours has elapsed. Whisper penalizes larger payloads so we may have to
chunk this. 140chars × 4bytes (utf-8) × 100 contacts = 54kb

The 100 contacts the user decides to return is weighted by;

the newest available information (latest status from that user), the
most seen contact statuses by other contacts. (that user who has seen
the same contact status from all his contacts) and actual interactions
with contacts, favor contacts that the user has actually messaged
themselves. if contact is online The Discover screen then takes this
aggregate search space 100-500 statuses × users in contact list and
organise them by \#hashtags, the hashtags that have more than X contacts
are put into the carousel under that \#hastag category.

Below it the statuses are listed by most recent.

On tapping one of these messages a chat session is attempted with that
user.

Each user should cache no more than 1000 statuses