# Vision

Today, when you are first exposed to Status, you might see an instant
messenger and wonder, "Whats the big deal? After all it’s just another
instant messenger right? What makes Status different and more
importantly why should I bother working on it?"

If I had to answer in one word, I would say *Decentralization*.

Now, that word might not have much meaning to you - it might even sound
like a buzz word - but in our context, *Decentralization* has the
potential fundamentally to change the way we organize socially and to
rebuild the Internet as it was originally imagined - a commons for
innovation. By decentralizing all the things, we are changing the very
foundation of civilization, providing a new infrastructural base that
impacts everything else above, from our greatest institutions to our
daily social interactions.

Status is our gateway to this new world. Let me explain.

# Why I got into Ethereum?

At the time of writing I am 31. I was lucky enough to be born in the
developed world and am old enough to remember a world where internet and
personal computing wasn’t as ubiquitous as it is today. I, like you, had
a front row seat to the birth of the Internet and perhaps like you, I
spent the majority of my childhood with networked computers. The idea of
instant, cheap and global communications was a given, and this is the
lens through which I viewed the world.

It wasn’t long before I began to start observing my environment and the
ways we collectively decided to do everything; whether that was in
school; seeing my parents jump through hoops around taxation; dealing
with receipts; banking; voting; dealing with car registrations; and even
setting up companies. I didn’t understand why things were like this,
having grown up with the Internet - all of it seemed senselessly
tedious. Couldn’t we do this all online? Wouldn’t life be better if we
could do this from the comfort of our homes? Imagine how much time we’d
save and how precise things would be\! No more waiting in line,
never-ending form filling or traveling great distances just to see a
person who tells you ‘no’.

This is my firsthand experience with a concept called **transaction
costs**. It took me a while to realize these monolithic, lumbering and
inefficient institutions was *actually the best we could do*. That all
these needless jobs and their apathetic attitudes, these pens that
barely worked, the paper torn from some rainforest, were all just
symptoms of operating the machinery of civilization. These dry, boring,
legal systems are what enabled us to scale collective organisation
beyond tribes. They allowed us to build religions, nations, and
corporations and are the very foundation of all our modern
accomplishments. Bureaucracy allowed humans to begin to exploit the
division of labour, maximizing the surface area in which we explore the
natural world.

In fact low [transaction
costs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transaction_cost) are so
fundamental to economic growth, it is expected that just a 0.1%
reduction in transaction costs quadruples a country’s wealth — the
difference between Argentina and Switzerland. Source: [M Kovac and R
Spruk (2015)](http://dx.doi.org/10.1017/S1744137415000077)

Twenty years later, everyone in the developed world is connected to the
internet, they have more powerful computers in their pocket than existed
in buildings forty years ago, and yet the bureaucratic systems are still
largely unchanged. People go through life thinking they are as constant
and unchanging as the ground they walk on, or the air they breathe. Even
with yesterday’s technology, we could make the shift to digital world,
but it seems our current systems are setup to expand their bureaucracy
with minimal increases in efficiency. There is little attempt to scale
intelligently with our population and demands. People are starting to
see institutions buckle under increasing complexity, and their
legitimacy is starting to be questioned.

What's more is the 'developed world' only encompasses a small fraction
of our global population. The vast majority of trade is done in ‘dark
markets’ and the vast majority of people are in 'third world' countries,
with governments that have larger corruption issues than our own. These
populations are side-stepping desktop computers in favour of mobile
first, just as they sidestepped landlines. Need they to follow in our
exact footsteps? Quite assuredly, the answer to that is no. A better
question would be: how can we simultaneously upgrade our systems and
provide people with less access to technological infrastructure with
modern networks that are corruption-resistant, cheaper, less
bureaucratic and more efficient?

Bitcoin, like most people, was my first taste of a paradigm shift. The
first widely-adopted crypto-economic mechanism that provided the legal
abstraction of money. It had effectively created programmable, digital
scarcity by providing a solution to the double-spend problem.
Furthermore, it had created the Blockchain, a socially immutable
database that could operate in hostile environments - a.k.a. the public
domain - but with a fixed set of operations. Bitcoin had provided fair
and inexpensive access for anyone wanting to participate and left a
history that anyone could independently audit. Tamper-proof technology
flies in the face of book-burning power regimes. It allows people to
send value through the internet without an intermediary, without
questions or gate-keeping, privately and securely - eroding the top down
control of institutions.

Then Ethereum came along, replacing a fixed instruction set and minimal
scripting language, moving away from “stored procedures” and replacing
it with a Turing complete Virtual Machine. With Ethereum, the Blockchain
became a world computer, capable of running Smart Contracts (arbitrary
code), for a price. This incremental innovation opens the flood gates on
what’s possible with Programmable Money.

We are witnessing the birth of a new trustless medium in which to
execute not just code, but law. We’re giving anyone who is willing to
participate fair access to not just create new policies that can be used
between friends, but to create new ways of organizing socially that can
be deployed instantly and used globally, creating mass movements. We’re
moving into a world where the agreements we join are not just defaults
based on arbitrary facts like where we were born, but contracts we enter
into voluntarily. We can reclaim our sovereignty.

# Why Status?

For any of that to happen though, we need to make this technology
accessible and ubiquitous for the people. As it currently stands, using
networks like Ethereum is largely dependent on a technologist's
skillset. That’s where Status comes in. Status' goal is the
mass-adoption of the best **public** Programmable Blockchain which, at
the time of writing, is Ethereum mainnet. Private Blockchains gain their
strength by resting on the existing legal infrastructure and, while this
approach has its merits, private chains do little to move civilization
forward, stagnating in their attempt to redesign systems that
approximate existing institutions.

If Ethereum is a World Computer, then Status aims to be an Operating
System, or Window Manager. It is the visual expression of the Ethereum
network, a user-friendly interface between people and machines alike (as
Ethereum makes no distinction with it’s address identifiers - Smart
Contracts are first-class citizens).

Status provides a way to find and transact with DApps and users.

We are a mobile-first experience. As of 2014 more people are on
smartphones and more time is spent on smartphones than laptop/desktops -
smartphones are the new personal computer. Status originally started as
Web 3.0 Browser, a ‘Mist for Mobile’, and is currently expressed as an
instant messenger, as a third of all time spent on a smartphone is
within an instant messenger, and instant messengers have the highest
amount of monthly active users. This allows us to increase the surface
area of adoption, meaning users can interact with Ethereum on a daily
basis.

Status should always adapt to how humans interact with their personal
computers on both the hardware and software levels. This includes the
inevitable change from Smartphones to Mixed Reality devices.

But Status is also more than a product, it is an experiment in
organization.

# Moving away from Product, to thinking to Networks

Of course, at the time of writing - designing, developing and shipping a
high quality Ethereum client is our first and foremost goal, but this is
just the expression of a belief in public Blockchains. This belief
exists in our collective minds, and together, our collective forms a
belief network.

This belief is in mass adoption of a public Programmable Blockchain, or
Ethereum, and as such is not bound to Status as a product alone. Our job
is to strengthen and grow this network, create the means to govern it,
and give birth to new Networks, just as the Ethereum network has given
birth to Status. This is the strength of open source development and
permission-less participation.

Forks in open source are something of a misnomer, instead code should be
viewed more like cultural text for an ideology. ‘Forks’ represent a
shift in thought and give rise to new networks of belief.

Open source projects historically have had a hard time to fund
themselves. Often they are carried on pure belief alone, by a loose
collective of people who found each other through the internet. Often,
it is the case they must support themselves by training and consultation
(which disrupts and distracts from original belief), or depend on
donations from supporters. If successful, maintainers may find that new
issues outstrip their ability to offer support, and there is simply no
means to scale with their users, except to encourage more developers and
work on it full-time, but we all have lives to maintain.

Tokens offer a way to commoditize beliefs and incentivize software users
to play an active role in governance and evangelism. This has
interesting side-benefits. We hypothesize that these can be used to
generate network effects on steroids. If you’re having difficulty with
this concept, take a common currency, such as the USD. This is only
valuable because both parties believe in it. Their reasons may be
varied, but it all stems from the USD's perceived legitimacy - i.e. the
particpants belief in the value of that coin - even though today this is
increasingly becoming backed by debt, rather than any tangible store of
value.

Our role is helping find and testing forms of decentralized governance,
to recreate typical functions found in organizations and adapt them to
work out in the open, in hostile environments.