Whether you desire an exciting way to explore the lush setting and
varied ecosystem, or else you're searching for a romantic weekend amid
some of the planet's most attractive scenery, Halong Bay Vietnam has it
all... you will surely have a trip you won't soon forget\! And vietnam
without any doubt is the absolute highlight of any trip to Vietnam and
surely essential on every traveller's itinerary.

Unfortunately, the natural riches and beauty of Halong Bay has also made
it a target for those who wish to exploit its resources. These days, it
is as a result of pressure of hunting and overfishing in the area in
danger of losing much of its aura. Game hunters are quickly decreasing
the populations of animals,
[tum.0xf9.com](https://tum.0xf9.com/wiki/User:AlyceOReily20) although
lots of precious coral and vietnam shells in the sea are being ripped
out to turn into trinkets and souvenirs for tourists.

Karst aren't exceptional in Asia, because these limestone towers can
also be located in Thailand's Krabi island and China's Guilin area.
However, Vietnam's Halong Bay leaves karst formations in the dust, as
the islets here fill the entire bay so far as the eye can see,
[wiki.primavista.fr](http://wiki.primavista.fr/index.php/The_Best_Halong_Bay_Cruise_Operator_-_Review_Of_Viola_Halong_Travel_Halong_Bay_Vietnam_-_Tripadvisor)
almost. Some of those islands are so big that they've woods,
[paradisecruise.com](https://halongbay.webstarts.com/index.html?r=20180829154855)
beaches and lakes full of creatures.

In case you've ever wanted to go to a place that engages on manyaudibly,
among many more, you couldn't have picked a better place. Halong Bay
delivers a coastline which has many islands that appear to float off the
water. The coastline has great sand you can chat about for months after
your trip.

Halong Bay is located in Quang Ninh province in northern Vietnam,
approximately 170 kilometers east of Hanoi in the Gulf of Tonkin.