Some vacationers traveling to Vietnam frequently have only one wish
that's visiting Halong bay, particularly tasting [Halong Bay
Cruise](https://halongbaycruise.cabanova.com/) bay by simply take on
halong bay cruises. The length of these cruises almost is 1, 2, or 3
nights and 4 nights (occasionally).

Whether you want an exciting way to explore the lush setting and varied
ecosystem, or you're searching for a romantic weekend amid some of the
world's most attractive scenery, Halong Bay Vietnam has it all... you'll
surely have a trip that you won't soon forget\! And travel with no doubt
is the absolute highlight of any trip to Vietnam and surely essential on
every traveler's itinerary.

Using its breathtaking archipelago of islands towering out of misty
water, Halong Bay takes the breath away with its mysterious however
enchanting beauty. These limestone pillars are exactly what make Halong
Bay a unique place recognized by UNESCO, and not found anyplace else on
the planet. Here, vietnam you are able to explore a landscape of arches,
fascinating caves and lakes, full of wildlife.

Ha Long is literally interpreted as "Bay of Descending Dragons." Before
the 19th century, this name was not recorded in archive or any document.
When mentioning the present-day Quang Ninh Sea or Ha Long Bay, old
historical novels frequently referred to them by the names of An Bang,
Luc Thuy or Van Don. Not until the late 19th century did the title of
Halong Bay appear on a French Marine Map. "The Hai Phong News", a French
newspaper of the time, had an article, "Dragon appears on Ha Long Bay",
reporting the following story: In 1898 a sub-lieutenant named Lagredin,
[Halong Bay
Cruise](http://wikimedia.org.bo/index.php?title=Free_Wifi_-_The_Best_Halong_Bay_Luxury_Cruise)
captaining the "Avalanse" reported seeing a huge sea snake on Ha Long
Bay.