Achieving our mission ultimately requires one thing: widespread end-user
adoption. Using the Status Network Token, we can design mechanisms for
growth that have been tried and tested in Web 2.0, whilst providing
greater transparency and better alignment of incentives for
participants.

The Status Acquisition Engine provides a cryptographically provable and
transparent means of growing the user base. The Status Acquisition
Engine functions as a network level acquisition model and Lifetime Value
(henceforth known as LTV) claims market, based on the Status Team’s
experience in user acquisition strategy. This is an area with many
moving parts, so it remains a research topic and is subject to change.

The Status Acquisition Engine is based on the referral design in the
paid user acquisition business model. In this model an Advertiser asks a
Publisher to drive traffic to their offering, paying the Publisher on a
cost-per-action basis (for example, a payout on install). While
effective in driving large volumes of traffic, the Advertiser is left
with the burden of verifying the integrity of the user acquisition
whilst at the same time the Publisher has no immediate disincentives for
providing low quality users. Additionally, the Advertiser often wants to
drive free traffic to their offering without fully considering the costs
associated with unproductive users.

The Advertiser in this scenario is primarily interested in determining
the LTV of an acquisition and therefore makes a risk-based assessment
which can be refined by accurately predicting the LTV at time of
acquisition.

During our operation of this business model we had the opportunity to
participate as both Advertiser (henceforth known as Buyer) and Publisher
(henceforth known as Seller), which helped us develop an intimate
understanding of both perspectives.

It is our belief the incentive structures of this business model can be
improved.

We aim to introduce a “Jellybean guessing contest” into the business
model, where a Seller deposits the cost of an acquisition and bonded
Predictors play to predict the LTV of a Candidate Address. We adapt the
original model by:

1.  Shifting the cost-per-action event from user acquisition to a
    deposit-backed Claim on an Acquisition, giving a Seller “skin in the
    game”.
2.  Introducing a contest to determine the LTV of an Address.
3.  Making it permissionless, requiring no prior agreement between Buyer
    and Seller.

This allows us to import future and past information into a single event
for the Buyer to decide upon, in which he receives a Receipt on the
candidate address that can be used as a claim on that Address. The
Claims are yet to be defined but could include, for example, a claim on
fee’s accrued in a Receipt-honouring DApp.

**SNT Utility**

  - Required to become a Seller in the Acquisition Engine. Required to
    become a Buyer in the Acquisition Engine. Deposits are made in SNT.

**Example use-cases**

  - Stakeholder A, owns a demand-side-platform (DSP), and sees an
    arbitrage opportunity to drive new stakeholders to the Network, and
    becomes a Seller. She downloads Status’ media kit, and begins buying
    inventory, and has a real-time LTV calculation to instantly
    determine return on ad spend. She further increases personal stake
    in the Network, given the scarcity of SNT created by new members
    joining the network.
  - Stakeholder B, a data analyst, wants to generate a side income,
    begins a Validator, and begins validating claims based on public
    data inputs.
  - Stakeholder C, a mathematician, begins purchasing claims upon
    observing an arbitrage opportunity based on a public data set.