## The easiest way

### 1\. Clone the repository

### 2\. Install the dependencies

We created a special script that installs everything Status needs.
However, this script works only

for macOS and Ubuntu Linux. If you use another Linux distribution,
please, install all dependencies manually (you can find the list below).

It’s also better to make sure that you have [Node Version
Manager](https://github.com/creationix/nvm) installed before running
this script.

The reason is simple — NVM provides much more flexibility and allows to
have several NPM versions installed.

Just run this to install all dependencies:

This script prepares and installs the following:

  - Homebrew
  - Java 8 (from Homebrew on Mac and from `ppa:webupd8team/java` on
    Ubuntu)
  - Clojure and Leiningen
  - Node.js (see note below)
  - React Native CLI and Watchman
  - Android SDK
  - Android NDK r10e (under `~/Android/Sdk/`)
  - Maven
  - Cocoapods

*Note 1:* it can take up to 20 minutes depending on your machine and
internet connection speed.

*Note 2:* If you don’t have `nvm`, `node@8` will be installed from
Homebrew.

If you don’t have `nvm` AND already have `node` installed on your
machine then nothing will happen.

Type `npm version` and make sure you don’t use Node.js v10 because it’s
not supported by Realm.js (see **Troubleshooting** section for
additional details).

## Running development processes

After you installed all the dependencies, you need to run two processes
— the build process and React Native packager. Keep both processes
running when you develop Status.

### 1\. Build process

Just run **one of these commands** in the first terminal window:

By doing this you will start the compilation of ClojureScript sources
and run re-frisk (a tool for debugging).

For additional information check the following:

  - [clj-rn](https://github.com/status-im/clj-rn);
  - [re-frisk](https://github.com/flexsurfer/re-frisk).

### 2\. React Native packager

Do this in the second terminal window:

## Build and run the application itself

### iOS (macOS only)

Just execute

If you wish to specify the simulator, just run `react-native run-ios
--simulator="iPhone 7"`.

You can check your available devices by running `xcrun simctl list
devices` from the console.

You can also start XCode and run the application there. Execute `open
ios/StatusIm.xcworkspace`, select a device/simulator and click **Run**.

*Note:* Of course, you need to install XCode first in both cases. Just
go to Mac AppStore to do this.

### Android

Installation script installs Android NDK, but you still need to install
Android SDK manually to build and run Status on Android.

The easiest way to do this is to install Android Studio — it will
install almost everything for you.

There is a difficult way for those who don’t want/need Android Studio.

In this case you have to do the following:

  - Install Android SDK from you package manager (`brew install
    android-sdk`, `sudo apt-get install android-sdk`, …) or download it
    manually [here](https://developer.android.com/studio/#downloads);
  - Add several env variables to your profile (.bashrc, .zshrc, …) —
    installer should say what are these variables and their values;
  - Run `android update sdk --no-ui` to update SDKs;
  - Run `sdkmanager` from your machine and install the latest Android
    SDKs;
  - *Optional:* If you want to use AVD (Android Virtual Device,
    emulator), please, check [this
    documentation](https://developer.android.com/studio/run/emulator);
  - *Optional:* If you don’t like AVD, you can also
    use [Genymotion](https://genymotion.com/);
  - Execute `react-native run-android`.

Errors like `android-sdk-16 not found` usually mean that you simply need
to install missing SDKs. Run `sdkmanager` for that.

Check the following docs if you still have
    problems:

  - [macOS](https://gist.github.com/patrickhammond/4ddbe49a67e5eb1b9c03);
  - [Ubuntu
    Linux](https://gist.github.com/zhy0/66d4c5eb3bcfca54be2a0018c3058931);
  - [Arch Linux](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/android) (can also
    be useful for other Linux distributions).

## Optional: Advanced build notes

### Node.js

There are several ways of installing Node.js on your machine.

One of the most convenient and easy is by using [Node Version Manager
(nvm)](https://github.com/creationix/nvm). However, our setup script
installs `node` from Homebrew if `nvm` is not installed on your machine.

That’s why we suggest to install `nvm` first if you want to have more
flexible development environment.

If `nvm` is already installed, `make setup` simply does the following:

### Custom Android SDK location

Some of developers prefer to use Android SDK integrated to Android
Studio. Of course, it doesn’t matter

for the build process — just make sure that `ANDROID_SDK_ROOT` points to
a right location and you have all the SDKs installed.

## Troubleshooting

### I see lots of yarn errors while installing Realm.js\!

Unfortunately, Realm doesn’t support Node.js v10. Which means that you
need to use Node \< 10 to build Status.

One of the best ways to install any older version of Node.js is to
use `nvm`.