''' This is not needed but a new guide on how to document on this Wiki
should be added to [Help:editing](Help:editing "wikilink") '''

1.  Documenting

Without clear documentation, new members to the community have no clear
instruction on how they can help to make Status better. We truly value
contributions that help to improve our documentation; whether that be
tutorials for users, additions to the FAQs, or more granular
instructions for developers - it all adds up and our community
appreciates it :)

Our Wiki is powered by MKDocs, and is on:
[1](https://github.com/status-im/wiki.status.im)(https://github.com/status-im/wiki.status.im),
and if you spot any errors, find parts of the documentation confusing,
or have some suggestions on how we could have clearer communication we'd
love your help, and feel free to let us know via the \[Status
Slack\](http://slack.status.im).

1.  1.  Documenting Guide

It's fairly difficult to write a general documentation guide as how you
document stuff will depend on what it is you are trying to explain. The
most basic stuff to know is that MKDocs uses markdown as it's primary
language, although you can also write your guides using inline HTML as
well. Please go
\[here\](http://www.mkdocs.org/user-guide/writing-your-docs/) for more
detailed info on this, as well as a look at how the file structure of
our docs works.

1.  1.  Getting Set Up

You need to have both python and pip set up on your machine to install
MKDocs. You can find all the information for how to do that and what
versions are required \[here\](http://www.mkdocs.org/). I had python
already installed on my machine, but needed to get pip:

\`\`\` sudo easy_install pip sudo pip install mkdocs \`\`\`

It seemed like using \`sudo\` was important otherwise the mkdocs install
failed with some nasty stack trace, but that may have been specific to
my environment (Mac). Once you have got that all working and

\`mkdocs --version\`

returns an answer (currently \`mkdocs, version 0.16.1\`), then you can
clone into the status repo and get going.

\`git clone <https://github.com/status-im/wiki.status.im.git>\`

(or \`git clone git@github.com:status-im/wiki.status.im.git\` if you
have your SSH keys set up) followed by

\`\`\` cd wiki.status.im mkdocs serve \`\`\`

You should then be able to navigate to <http://localhost:8000> or
<http://127.0.0.1:8000> and see the changes you are making to the wiki
as you make them. Magic\!

1.  1.  General Notes on What We Look For

Generally speaking, we like a lot of screenshots and less language as
this helps us to guide people all over the world who may not all speak
the same languages. Take a look at our \[User
Guide\](http://wiki.status.im/getting-started/user-guide/) for a rough
outline of what we mean by balancing your text with screenshots and
other helpful images.

As you can see from our \[github
repo\](https://github.com/status-im/wiki.status.im) all of the different
documents are kept in the \`docs\` directory. Click through to there to
find the section and then the specific document you are wanting to add
to or edit, or make a new file for documentation that you feel is
missing.

<center>

<img src="../img/status-wiki.png" />

</center>

In the top level repo, you can also see an \`mkdocs.yml\` file, which is
what controls how and where each document appears. If you are adding a
new document, you will need to speak to Jarrad, Carl or another team
member to figure out where it belongs, but either way you will need to
edit this file in order for it to appear. It is definitely best to
communicate with the core team before diving this deep though.

As you can see, I have uploaded a bunch of images into this post (which
is largely about encouraging you to use lots of images in your own
documentation and explainers). The images are all kept in the \`img\`
directory in each folder within the \`docs\` directory. You cannot
upload straight to these \`img\` folders as that requires push access to
the whole repo, but you can make your own fork of \`wiki.status.im\` and
upload the images there to be merged by the team once you have completed
your awesome work. To do all this, navigate to the folder you are
working in and click the \`Fork\` option in the very top right. This
will start a new fork of the wiki in your own repo, where you can upload
the photos and then later push back to status to be merged.

<center>

<img src="../img/img-location.png" />

</center>

Once you have forked it and selected where it should go in your profile,
you can then add images easily by either dragging and dropping or
uploading directly from your machine.

<center>

<img src="../img/forking-repo.png" />

</center>

You can select the first radio button option to commit the uploaded
images you need directly onto your own master branch. From there, once
you are sure that all the changes you have made are the ones you want to
make and look good on the wiki via that neat trick with

\`mkdocs serve\`

then you can submit a PR to the actual status wiki:

<center>

<img src="../img/pull-request.png" />

</center>

Click the highlighted button near the top right and follow the
instructions from there to submit your changes to the status team. You
should see a screen something like this where you can review all the
changes you have made before actually submitting. For the PR, I have
uploaded the photos needed for this post, made two grammatical changes
to the User Guide and, obviously enough, uploaded this entire
\`documenting.md\` file, all of which I can review easily.

<center>

<img src="../img/comparing-pr.png" />

</center>

Thank you so much for adding to our wonderful, free (libre) open source,
community-driven effort to bring Ethereum to the people\!

1.  1.  Documentation Guidelines

These will evolve as the project does, but really depends on what
specific type of documentation you are looking to help out with. For
technical documentation, examples and lots of code is what we are
primarily looking for; by way of example see the first set up section of
this article. For instance, in order to add an image here, you can
either use inline html (my preferred option because it is easier to
position and style) or the normal markdown way of doing things. The
images above are inserted like so:

\`

<center>

<img src="../img/status-wiki.png" />

</center>

\`

and style tags etc can be added really easily:

\`

<center>

<img src="../img/status-wiki.png" style="width:300px" />

</center>

\`

or you can just do it in normal markdown:

\`\[\!\[We lost the documentation on quantum mechanics. You'll have to
decode the regexes yourself.\](img/xkcd-224.jpg)\](https://xkcd.com/224/
"We lost the documentation on quantum mechanics. You'll have to decode
the regexes yourself.")\`

If you are writing documentation that is end-user-facing, rather than
aimed at the technical folks in our community, then the less code and
text and the more pretty images with directions scrawled across them the
better.