# Mission and Core Values

On mobile devices today more time is spent in messenger apps than in any
other type of application. Mobile devices will be, and in many cases
already are, where people do most if not all of their personal
computing. Status is an encrypted and decentralised messaging
application that frees users both from third party surveillance and from
the mining of the meta data in their social graph. More than an instant
messenger, Status is a platform that allows anyone with a capable smart
phone to use decentralized applications (DApps) right from their mobile
device.

##### Join us in putting ethereum on every mobile device on the planet.

## The Mission

To ease the transition to a more open mobile internet.

To help anyone, anywhere interact with ethereum, and make Web 3
available for the average smart phone user.

Status fosters links with the wider ethereum DApp community and
showcases what the ecosystem has to offer.

To achieve our mission we intend to employ a strategy that contains
three core components:-

*Technology - Application / Blockchain Community - Developer / Users
User Acquisition - Mass Adoption.*

## Technology

Status is built using ClojureScript, React and Golang. It includes a
geth node on your device that uses the Light Ethereum Subprotocol (LES)
to validate and sync with the blockchain. It uses Whisper (shh) as its
messaging client and aims to integrate Swarm for storage.

To sync with and validate the ethereum blockchain on a mobile device,
Status deploys a geth node using the Light Ethereum Subprotocol (LES).

Status’ messaging are transmitted using the Whisper (shh) protocol.

Status aims to integrate Swarm for storage.

## Developer and Contributor Community

We aim to help anyone who is keen to learn about and/or contribute to
the community's effort.

As a community we strive to welcome and encourage those who are (as we
so recently were,) new to the paradigm of massively concurrent
permissionless peer-to-peer networks.

We approach all contributions with an open mind and a respect for the
opinions of our fellow developers.

The Status Development community actively explores and experiments with
the latest ethereum technologies in the ongoing drive to provide the
best possible user experience.

We aim to foster an environment conducive to easy, intuitive and
consistent learning and one that fosters innovation at all levels.

## Security and sovereignty

Status will not compromise the sovereignty and security of user data.

We offer an intuitive entry point into decentralized, encrypted,
peer-to-peer networks that is maintained by a large and diverse group of
developers.

## Beliefs

Status.im believes in an open internet. Built, not only on open
protocols, but upon Free/Libre software where the costs (financial or
otherwise) of participation are negligible for all.

Status is founded on the belief that communication is at the heart of
human social (and economic) life; and that society thrives through
direct interaction rather than from intermediation. Status can pave the
way towards conversational crypto-commerce.

We believe that systems like ethereum have the potential to improve the
very fabric of our society. Status.im should solve the problem of giving
ordinary people across the globe easy access to the power and promise of
Ethereum and Web3.

Status.im is passionate about Distributed and Decentralised technology
in general, and about the advantages of ethereum’s public Blockchain in
particular.

We believe that people should directly control the use of their own
personal data, and the history of their social interactions. We imagine
the benefits to all of a future where distributed and decentralized
applications make proprietary intermediaries and centralised services
(which exploit their users) obsolete.

Communication, decision making and control should be clear and
transparent to everyone in the community.

Our work is driven by a belief that Ethereum and public blockchains can
yield great benefits to society, and access to DApps and Ethereum should
be made available to anyone, anywhere.

## Core Values

Reciprocity, open-mindedness, respect and encouragement.

The systems we're creating must be open, permissionless, award fair
access and Distribute, Decentralise, and Democratise power.

Status is licenced as Free Libre & Open Source software, which allow
**anyone** to run the software for **any** purpose as well as to
**study**, **modify**, and **distribute** the software and any adapted
versions.