## When will the beta launch?

We’re working to resolve critical issues remaining on our beta
milestone. Once this milestone is complete, we’ll have a beta candidate.

Because our most recent release 0.9.19 included mainnet as an optional
network, we do anticipate additional issues will be identified,
prioritized and addressed in our next release.

## What is the difference between the beta and alpha?

Beta is just like any other release. The key difference is that mainnet
will be the default network option for all users. We’re putting the app
under heavy scrutiny before pushing that to the wider community, so it’s
a significant milestone.

Completing our security audit with Deja Vu was an important factor in
feeling confident about this release.

## Is the beta closed

The beta is closed for iOS users because it will be distributed through
TestFlight. We are allowed a maximum of 10,000 TestFlight invites. iOS
users can request an invite [here](https://status.im/success.html)

We do not have a limit to testers through the Play Store, as far as I
know. Android users can find Status in the [Play
Store](https://play.google.com/apps/testing/im.status.ethereum).

## Will the beta have any SNT use-cases

No. Our number one goal is to achieve confidence in messaging and
safeguard transactions on mainnet.

We do have several great SNT use cases underway, including: ENS
usernames, Tribute to Talk, a voting DApp for SNT stakeholders, and paid
mail servers.

## Will beta be main-net by default?

Yes. The option to opt back in to testnest will also be available
initially.

## Will you be able to trade tokens directly in the chat for beta?

No. This is a high priority backlog item for the Core Wallet team, but
quite a complex feature.

Note that we prioritize bugs over new features on the wallet, due to the
seriousness of risk involved. This means that token support in chat is
lower in importance than fixing any flaws that could put a user’s assets
at risk, but we do all want to see this feature in Status\!

## What makes beta different than the app store version?

If “app store version” means our public V1, then the most important goal
is for us to have solid SNT use cases. The app store version will be
accessible to everyone, with no limit on iOS users.

## Will status use light-clients for beta?

No, but there’s great progress on the light client front. First tests of
the ultra light client (ULC) are indicating factor 10 performance
improvements against standard LES. The goal is to have ULC inside
go-ethereum in
Q2.

## Are there rough time estimates for when status will be available in app stores?

Our target is end of 2018/early 2019.

## Can we still suggest improvements and report bugs in beta?

Absolutely. We’ll continue using Instabug, which means users can shake
their phones to bring up the bug report screen and report problems.

## Will regular updates be as frequent as alpha in beta?

Yes. We’re generally working in a biweekly release cadence and we make
hotfixes when necessary.

## Will hardware wallet integration be slated in the beta timeframe?

No. We just hired a product manager for the hardware wallet, so that
work is kicking off
soon.

## Will Beta have capability of individual group chats and/or large public chats like \#status?

Large public group chats, yes.

Private group chats, not right away. We’ve had bugs here that required
us to disable them temporarily.

## Will Beta downloads be limited on iOS ?

We’ll use the same distribution as for alpha.

For iOS, TestFlight limits us to 10k
invitations.

## If I already have the Status Alpha on iOS am I guaranteed a Beta place?

If you have the latest version installed, yes. You can also request an
invite here: <https://status.im/success.html>

## Will more Dapps and SNT use cases be added as Beta progresses?

Absolutely\! Both of these are high priority areas for us post-beta.

## Will there be marketing to coincide with Beta release?

Yes\! Cc @kim @jonny.z :)

## How many Dapps will be installed in the Beta?

At the moment, we have 16 pre-selected DApps and users are welcome to
suggest their favorite DApps for inclusion.

Also, note that you can visit any DApp you want from the browser.

## How many types of asset will we see in the Beta wallet?

We support over 80 of the top tokens on Coinmarketcap. Currently this is
a static list, so if users have suggestions or requests, we’re happy to
hear them.