#### 1\) We share, therefore we are

Code and ideas are free (libre) and open source by default. It takes
cost and effort to enclose, exploit and restrict thought or information.
We choose to make our code available for anyone to download, use and
abuse in a share-alike manner. Make sure to burn this into your neural
pathways; “Free Software for a Free Society.”

#### 2\) Do first, ask permission later

In free and open networks, as opposed to fixed and closed hierarchies,
permission is exactly equivalent to good communication. Open source
software projects are very different to traditional corporations. Others
will not tend to give you work to do, track your time, set exact
deliverables, and generally make your plan for you. This can truly be a
blessing. However, it also means that have to look actively to see what
needs doing, and then take responsibility for getting it done. The only
caveat here is that thou shalt not duplicate work. Asking for permission
in open source setups is equivalent to checking that nobody else is
working on your issue.

#### 3\) We collaborate competitively

Our community values creative collaboration, understanding that
creativity can be best served by the very structure of open source
communities where ideas compete to flourish: i.e. if you don't like it,
fork it. Having said that ,we compete only to collaborate more
effectively, efficiently and equally than other value ecosystems and so
we strive to produce, promote and protect the kind of language -
especially at a protocol level - that enhances the development of ideas
and constructive dialogue.

#### 4\) We are open and transparent with all our peers

In order to use new technology responsibly, we need to understand the
practical benefits and potential dangers it confers on us and how to use
them most wisely. If we are to let go of the need for central
intermediaries of trust (and therefore much of the possibility of
systemic corruption) it will not just be a technological problem, but
one that requires a shift in mindset from everyone.

#### 5\) Each one, teach one

An AfrikaBurn principle, here because phrases like 'permissionless
innovation' and 'low barriers to access' are meaningless without an
educated community capable of understanding and innovating in the first
place. Education is a massive part of the long term vision of Status, so
be a teacher.

#### 6\) Give, without expecting anything in return

No, we're not asking for money. This is just a truly beautiful concept -
give of your time, give of your knowledge, give of your enthusiasm. Find
something that inspires you to the point where giving is a blessing, not
a burden.

#### 7\) We do not exploit people or information

Because no set of principles would be complete without stating the
obvious: part of forming a collaborative community is the endeavour to
always  think, speak, and act rightly. Oh, and don't lie, steal, kill,
or worship false idols either.

#### 8\) We participate enthusiastically

The word ‘enthusiasm’ comes from the Greek entheos - to see god in the
world, or rather, to infuse the divine into everything we see and do. We
believe that transformative change, whether in the individual or in
society, can occur only through deeply personal participation. Money is
a token, a legal fiction, and fiction always needs the reader to
participate in the story by suspending our disbelief in order to reveal
a deeper truth. With enthusiasm we can take a conscious part in the most
valuable drama of our day and write collaboratively the next page of
history.

## Community Culture

Before we go any further, we need to tell you a little about our culture
and the kind of community we are trying to build at Status. A token (be
it linguistic or economic) is a representation, a sign, an expression of
value. However, it takes a community to interpret different
representations of value and thereby imbue them with meaning. Our
communities are as important as the consensus protocol we use to agree
upon our shared history and future.

Bitcoin revealed how a transaction-based model can be used to secure and
communicate value via a network of peers. However, commercial
transactions are only a subset of human interaction and relationship.
With a richer scripting language - a Turing-complete protocol for
defining protocols - we can use Ethereum not only to secure and
communicate value, but to define that value dynamically and build
systems that incentivise more equitable distribution. In short, it takes
a community with a rich common language to invest any given transaction
with meaning.

It is this same community that uses language to build applications
useful to them and their local context, which nevertheless leverage the
power of global, trustless computation provided by networks like
Ethereum. Technology itself does not act or mean anything; it is the
users who define the direction it takes. In this sense, the tools we
choose to use are always double-edged swords. Importantly, our aim is
not to use only one side of that sword, but rather to cut with the grain
of the wood.

## Community Structure

Whatever part people play in the story of the Status Network they are
all contributing to something larger than themselves. We want you to
help lay the foundations for the contributions that follow by
deliberately constructing a set of shared meanings that will give our
community structure. Our community activity is organised into domains,
but they are not intended to be a separation of powers or a prescription
of people’s fixed roles. Any one of us may, at different stages, be a
Creator, Contributor or Curator, or a mix of all three. We simply hope
these categories will help us think about the many aspects of a
permissionless community and structure our activity effectively.

#### Contributors - “I build”

Our community is organised into three essential domains. The first, and
most important for our maiden voyage, are contributors like yourself.
These are people who understand the vision, code first, and talk later.
Occasionally, they venture out of their basements to face the wider
world, but very rarely during the day. Such people rapidly come to
understand the scope of the technical challenges facing us and are
willing to spend most of their time either on GitHub or in a code editor
locally, trying to figure out how to make an almost entirely new
technology stack work in ways that “ordinary” people will understand,
use, and find generally delightful.

#### Creators - “I communicate”

Next up, we have creators. These are people with the skills and
intelligence required to take the amazing and technical work done by
contributors, understand the intention behind it and the ways in which
it is meant to be used, and then express that coherently to an audience
more diverse than just other developers or cryptocurrency enthusiasts.
They do so by - as the name implies - creating new and interesting
content that people find engaging and educational, as well as creating
events and meetups around the world and generally building a friendly,
welcome and informative platform for our wider community. Think of them
as the translation layer between hardcore code and real world uses.

#### Curators “I Pollinate”

Finally, we have the curators. These are open-minded, caring people
capable of moderating our social channels, taking the content generated
by creators and placing it contextually within the chaotic web of modern
communications all competing for our limited attention. There are many
ideas that we don’t properly understand in the wider Web3 community and
around the status network, and curators pick them out and hold them up
to the light. They engage people in further conversations about whatever
the hot topic is that day and gather wider community feedback to hand
over to creators and contributors so as to improve our processes
iteratively. While they don’t need to add as much original value as
contributors or curators, these people are in the front-lines, answering
questions and taking fire from the trolls. Speaking of German and Polish
curators at WWII museums in Europe, one commentator was struck by “their
patience and willingness to engage with students asking difficult
questions− and their willingness to hear people out in a culture of
patience and good faith”. These are the kind of people we are looking
for.