# Summary

When a user opens Status or taps on a push notification they should be
able to start using the app quickly without any interruptions, and also
have control over authentication preferences.

# Swarm Participants

Lead Contributor: @alwx Testing & Evaluation: @asemiankevich PM: Chad UX
(if relevant): @patrick @hester @andrei

# Product Overview

Status frequently logs out users when the app is in the background and
forces users to log in again when opening the app. Being repeatedly and
unexpectedly logged out has led to frustration and complaints (see
Instabug and internal reports) which negatively impact the user
experience and potentially contributes to churn. Also, users are
encouraged to have complex passwords but this can be cumbersome to
enter.

By reducing friction around the critical point of returning to the app
users can spend more time in Status which will help DAU and retention
(Q2 OKR).

This idea seeks to make logging in seamless through both technical and
UX methods.

# Product Description

From a users perspective, the user will not repeatedly be logged out
when using Status. This will be the default behavior. Since
authentication preference is personal, there will be security/login
settings so that a user can customize their desired level of control.
For example, a user can specify never to be logged out, or choose to log
in every time.

When we do ask users to login we want this to be as smooth as possible,
and this can be achieved with the (optional) use of device security
features such as Touch ID or a pin code. Instead of a password prompt, a
user can simply use their fingerprint or look into the phone. This will
be set up during onboarding and toggled in settings.

Note, that all transactions require authentication, so even if the phone
was lost or stolen a third party couldn’t transfer funds. This idea does
not cover the transaction flow.

# Iteration 1

During onboarding give users the option to setup seamless authentication
(if their device supports it) and use the device/OS conventions to
enable, or skip. There will be settings to manage this preference.

# Iteration 2

Take seamless login further and fix the root cause of the log outs by
restoring from crashes. See \#2869 for some preliminary exploration.

This iteration is completed when users don’t have to type their password
after a crash.

# Success Metrics

A user does not need to login after several hours of intermittent use on
Android and iOS, as well as logins persistent across upgrades (can it be
automated in tests?) UXR validates workflow on real devices with real
users 90% of surveyed users are satisfied with the frequency of login
requests from Status app 0 password related issues in Instabug

# Exit Criteria

When Iteration 1 and 2 are complete the success metrics should be
evaluated. If the results are successful this swarm can be closed. If
work is needed a third iteration can be done to address shortcomings.