Special thanks to @cryptowanderer for contributing this fantastic
guide\!

Thank you for taking the time to help out with our fledgling free
(libre) open source project. Any initiative like this depends primarily
on the community that forms around it, so by contributing any of your
knowledge or skills, even if it’s just one line, you are playing an
active role in forming the sort of decentralized, robust peer network
which might have a hope of securing a more equitable future for all of
us.

Obviously, the first and most important thing to know about contributing
in any way to the wonderful status.im is where to go to find all the
stuff. That one is easy to answer: click here.

Now, git is very cool, and there are ways to use the command line to do
all this stuff, but if you’re doing that then I am going to assume that
you don’t need a guide, or can find a better one than this on your own.
This will only cover submitting a pull request (PR) through the browser
and is aimed specifically at those wanting to help us with translations
who might not be actual coders themselves.

The page with all the translations listed on it should look something
like this:

If you can see a file for your language already, then click on that and
we can submit the PR from there. You can skip the next section and go
straight to the last one if you are just updating an existing file. If
you are starting a new file for a language not currently listed, please
click the Create new file button highlighted in the top right.

# Start a New Translation

If you are creating a new file, this is what the page should look like:

There are some important things to note here. First off, I have decided
to help out with the translation to Wooki, so have called my file
wo.cljs. Please give the two letters used to represent your language and
make sure to include the .cljs file extension (as a lot of status is
written in clojure and clojurescript). If your language doesn’t have a
two letter identifier, or you are doing a dialect, then use the
fr_ch.cljs example as your template. Second, make sure that you update
the first line. In this example, I have copy-pasted the Afrikaans file
and changed .af to .wo to match what I called my file.

You can then get translating - as you can see by my exact translation of
members-title to the Wooki equivalent.

Once you’ve done all the translations, all you really need to do is
propose the file, review the changes you have made, submit the PR and
the team should be able to handle it from there. Please see below for a
fully illustrated version of those last two steps if you need it.

# Update an Existing Translation

If your language already appears in this repo, but you would like to see
some stuff change because it’s wrong or impolite or gets its tense all
mixed up, then click on the file in question and submit a PR from there.
Seeing as I’m South African, I’m going to take on the Afrikaans
translation and submit a PR which the team will then decide to merge or
not, depending on how lekker they think my taal is.

You want to select the file and then click on the pencil edit icon near
the top right:

This should open a file on your fork of the project, which will allow
you to edit it as you please and submit the changes to the status team,
who can review it, decide if they like your changes and then merge it
back from your newly-created fork into the main repo. I know it sounds a
bit complex, but this is awesome for versioning software, controlling
changes, edits, and conflicts and makes much more sense once you do it a
bit yourself. Your edit page should look something like this:

As I have indicated, I am going to edit "en jy" to “en u” because it is
more formal and polite (if you speak Afrikaans, you know that this is
contextually incorrect, but bear with me while I illustrate the concept
here).

Once you are happy with all the changes you have made, scroll down and
hit the green button to propose them. This should take you to a screen
where it will highlight in red what the file used to say and highlight
in green what you have changed it to. Please review your changes here in
full and then hit the other green button in the top left to submit the
PR:

And that’s it. Now sit back, have a cup of tea, and let the rest of the
black magic that is status.im do its thing.