1.  User Guide

<!-- end list -->

1.  1.  Setting It All Up

Special thanks to
\[@cryptowanderer\](https://twitter.com/cryptowanderer) for contributing
this fantastic guide\!

Welcome to Status\! This is Ethereum, anywhere. Ethereum everywhere. A
world computer in your pocket. It is so many cool and amazing things
that is difficult to know where to start. Being entirely too overwhelmed
with the awesomeness that is an Ethereum light client running on your
mobile phone, I suppose we’ll just begin at the beginning.

Once you have downloaded the app, installed it and opened it, it should
take you into a chat with Console: a dApp that lives inside status and
lets you set up your account and control all the important stuff (as
well as a bunch of other rad features, which we will get to in good
time).

<center>

<img src="../img/image_0.png" style="width:300px;" />

</center>

As you can see, I have already been chatting a fair bit with Console
(friends, yay\!\!). The UI concept here is that when someone sends an
action message requesting (in this case) a password, or money, or a
confirmation code etc., you can tap the blue block and it will insert
the appropriate syntax to respond to that request, followed by your
input.

One other thing to note is the ‘Available’ beneath ‘Console’ in the top
left. This means that my phone has synced with the ropsten testnet
(unbelievable right?\!). I am running android 7.0 and am doing so over
wifi. It took just under 40mins for me to sync, though there are varying
reports coming in to our slack depending on phone, OS and network
differences. Still, ~40min sync time on a mobile is just insane. Thanks
Zsolt for the amazing
\[LES\](https://github.com/ethcore/parity/wiki/Light-Ethereum-Subprotocol-(LES))\!

<center>

<img src="../img/image_1.jpg" style="width:300px;" />

</center>

You can see that you can optionally give your phone number to help
status sync with your existing contacts. This is not mandatory and the
app will work fine without it. If you do provide it, please make sure to
give your country code (so +27… for me) so that status can send you the
confirmation message. Note that if you run into any issues, you can just
shake your phone and this should bring up a screen that allows you to
submit an error report directly to the status team. You can select from
the options what you want to do, but generally it seems best to \`Report
a
Problem\`:

<center>

<img src="../img/image_2.png" style="width:300px;" /><img src="../img/image_3.png" style="width:300px;" />

</center>

You should be able to select a colour to indicate the severity of the
issue on the second screen above. I really want to make sure that
Jarrad, Carl and the crew are on their toes, so I have gone for red
here. Hitting the forward button (top right) should take you to where
the magic really happens:

<center>

<img src="../img/image_4.png" style="width:300px;" />

</center>

Please note the \`Take a screen recording\` button in the bottom left.
This is how the team prefers you to submit bug reports as it is
enormously helpful with seeing exactly what went wrong and so providing
insight into where to go to fix the issue. You can enter your email,
take a video and go ahead and submit. At which point we issue you a
massive thank you for being such a stellar alpha tester. Go you\!

1.  1.  Actually Using the App

OK, now that we have the setup out the way, we can get into the really
fun stuff. Once you have generated your account with Console, you can
open both the ropsten testnet faucet and the status test faucet to get
some shweet test ether into your account so that you can go out and
convince actual people to be your friends too. Please do not open an
issue if this doesn’t happen - we can’t convince people to like you
(even if you do use the best tech around).

To open both faucets, tap the hamburger menu with the blue dot to the
left of the chat
box:

<center>

<img src="../img/image_5.png" style="width:300px;" /><img src="../img/image_6.png" style="width:300px;" /><img src="../img/image_7.png" style="width:300px;" />

</center>

In words, we tap the menu on the left, scroll down and select the faucet
option and then select which testnet we want to get ether from. Repeat
this twice to open both faucets and you should get a bit more ether a
bit more quickly. Don’t worry about the web3 stuff in the first
screenshot - we’ll get to that (who said you can’t build suspense in a
technical user guide?).

Seeing as we’re now finished chatting to Console for the moment, we can
hit the back button and this will take us into the Chats page:

<center>

<img src="../img/image_8.png" style="width:300px;" />

</center>

Here you can see all the lovely people that you have been chatting to.
It’s really straightforward and intuitive, so behave as you normally
would in WhatsApp or WeChat etc. Tapping a conversation will take you
into it, and you can use the bottom three tabs to navigate through the
Chats, Discover and Contacts screen. You can also just swipe right. Just
do you.

There is another important dApp that lives here as well - your wallet.
Selecting it should take you to a screen like
this:

<center>

<img src="../img/image_9.png" style="width:300px;" /><img src="../img/image_10.png" style="width:300px;" />

</center>

The main screen opens what is essentially an in-app browser that will
show your main balance. You can scroll that screen down using the small
down arrow at the top in the centre to see the actual transactions in a
chat-like interface. As you can see, I am super rich - absolutely
rolling in that test ether - and have sent some to Jarrad as mad props
for building the app, and received some from Roland as a little test.

If you navigate back out of the wallet chat and swipe right, or select
the Discover tab at the bottom, you will get to the Discover page:

<center>

<img src="../img/image_11.png" style="width:300px;" />

</center>

Here you can see hashtags people are using and discover all the
different conversations going on. Swipe right through the cards to see
the most popular categories, or scroll down to see the most recent
updates. If you want to make a message of your own appear here, you need
to open your profile page and edit your status with the hashtag you want
to see appear here. Start a meme or hop onto an existing one - it’s all
up to you. You can get to your profile page by tapping the little
hamburger menu in the very top left of the app:

<center>

<img src="../img/image_12.png" style="width:300px;" />

</center>

Don’t stress about the \`Settings\` tab - that will be functional in a
later release. Your profile page should look like the below. To edit it,
hit the three dots in the top
right:

<center>

<img src="../img/image_13.jpg" style="width:300px;" /><img src="../img/image_14.jpg" style="width:300px;" />

</center>

Tap next to your name to edit that, tap your status to edit that and hit
the pencil icon by the picture to upload your own. Remember to include
that hashtag if you want it to appear on the Discover page.

Once that is all done and you’ve broadcast a status for all the world to
see, swipe right once more (or use the tabs for navigation) and you will
get to the Contacts page. Here you will see the dApps that are currently
living in status as well as all the wonderful people you have connected
with:

<center>

<img src="../img/image_15.png" style="width:300px;" />

</center>

These dApps all work in essentially the same way as the wallet - you can
open a chat with them, which will direct you to an in app browser that
displays whatever is appropriate for that app. There is a small down
arrow at the top which you can scroll down to see any transactions that
have occurred between you and the dApp. Directly from within status -
signed, sealed and delivered, it all just works. Mind-boggling, I
know.

<center>

<img src="../img/image_16.png" style="width:300px;" /><img src="../img/image_17.png" style="width:300px;" />

</center>

If you close your app or otherwise have an issue, when you reopen it,
you should be directed to a screen which looks like the below. Select
the account that belongs to you (in the case where you set up more than
one) and then put in the appropriate password and you should get back to
the chat
screen:

<center>

<img src="../img/image_18.png" style="width:300px;" /><img src="../img/image_19.png" style="width:300px;" />

</center>

If that doesn’t work for you or your account doesn’t appear like mine,
hit the \`Recover access\` button at the bottom of the first screen and
follow the prompts to input the 12 word passphrase console gave you when
you first set stuff up and your password.

Happy sailing\!

1.  1.  For the Adventurous

We’ve covered all the basic functionality as it stands, but there is so
much more that you can do with status. Most of this stuff will only
become available in the beta release or after, but developers around the
world should be getting really excited to start building dApps to live
alongside Flight Delays and Maker etc.

Though it is by no means complete yet, you can do a lot more than just
set you account up using Console - it is, after all, a full dApp of its
own. Go back to that chat and type \`web3.\` (the fullstop is important)
and
\`web3.eth.\`:

<center>

<img src="../img/image_20.png" style="width:300px;" /><img src="../img/image_21.png" style="width:300px;" />

</center>

You should be able to see a whole bunch of suggestions for the sorts of
things you can do directly from Console, the most basic of which is
\`web3.eth.blockNumber\` which will return the current block number on
the ropsten testnet. If this doesn’t blow your mind, I’m not sure what
will. There are, as I said, still improvements to be made here regarding
technical things like retaining state between messages, but it will get
there.

If you want to dive in even further and help develop the app, contribute
some code or otherwise get involved in the technical side of things,
here are the links you need:

How to build it:
[1](https://wiki.status.im/contributing/development/building-status/)(https://wiki.status.im/contributing/development/building-status/)

The latest nightlies:
[2](http://artifacts.status.im:8081/artifactory/nightlies-local/)(http://artifacts.status.im:8081/artifactory/nightlies-local/)

If you would like to help us with how to build for Linux and Windows,
please do feel free - that would be really awesome to get everyone up to
the same speed.

''' All images for this guide can be found here
<https://github.com/status-im/wiki.status.im/tree/master/docs/contributing/img>
'''