# Vision

Today, when you are first exposed to Status, you might see an instant
messenger and wonder whats the big deal? After all it’s just another
instant messenger right? What makes Status different and more
importantly why should I bother working on it?

If I had to answer in one word, I would say Decentralization.

Now, that word might not have much meaning to you, it might even sound
like a buzz word, but in our context, Decentralization has the potential
to fundamentally change the way we socially organize and to rebuild the
Internet as it was intended. With Decentralization, we are changing the
very foundation of civilization, providing a new infrastructural base
that impacts everything else above, from our greatest Institutions to
our daily social interactions.

Status is our gateway to this new world, let me explain.

# Why I got into Ethereum?

At the time of writing I am 31, I was lucky enough to be born in the
developed world and am old enough to grow up in a world where internet
and personal computing wasn’t as ubiquitous as it is today. I, like you,
had a front row seat to the birth of the Internet and perhaps like you,
I spent the majority of my childhood with networked computers. The idea
of instant, cheap and global communications was a given, and this is the
lens in which I viewed the world.

It wasn’t long before I began to start observing my environment, we way
we collectively decided to do everything, whether that was in school,
seeing my parents jump through hoops around taxation, dealing with
receipts, banking, voting, dealing with car registrations and even
setting up companies. In time, all of which I would experience myself. I
didn’t understand why things were like this, having an grown up with the
Internet - all of it seemed senselessly tedious. Couldn’t we do this all
online? Wouldn’t life be better if we could do this from the comfort of
our homes? Imagine how much time we’d save\! and how precise things
would be\! No more waiting in line, never-ending form filling or
traveling great distances just to see a person who tells you ‘no’.

This is my firsthand experience with a concept called **transaction
costs**. It took me awhile to realize these monolithic, lumbering and
inefficient Institutions was *actually the best we could do*. That all
these needless jobs and their apathetic attitudes, these pens that
barely worked, the paper torn from some rainforest were all just
symptoms of operating the machinery of civilization. These dry, boring
legal systems is what enabled us to collectively scale beyond tribes.
They allowed us to build nations and are the very foundation of all our
modern accomplishments, it allowed humans to begin to exploit the
division of labour, maximizing the surface area in which we explore the
natural world.

In fact low [transaction
costs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transaction_cost) are so
fundamental to economic growth, it is expected that just a 0.1%
reduction in transaction costs quadruples a country’s wealth — the
difference between Argentina and Switzerland. Source: [M Kovac and R
Spruk (2015)](http://dx.doi.org/10.1017/S1744137415000077)

20 years later, everyone in the developed world is connected to the
internet, they have more powerful computers in their pocket, yet these
systems are still largely unchanged, for the most part, people go
through life thinking they are as constant and are as unchanging as the
ground they walk on, or the air they breathe. Even with yesterday’s
technology we could make the shift to digital world, but it seems our
current systems are setup to expand their bureaucracy with minimal
increases in efficiency. An attempt to scale with our population and
demands. People are starting to see our institutions buckle under scale,
their legitimacy is starting to be questioned.

What more is the developed world only reaches a small fraction of our
global population. The vast majority of trade is done in ‘dark markets’
and the vast majority of people are in third world countries, their
governments have larger corruption issues than our own. These
populations are side-stepping desktop computers in favour of mobile
first, are they to follow in our exact footsteps? How can we
simultaneously upgrade our systems and provide them with modern legal
technology which is corruption-resistant, cheaper, less bureaucratic and
more efficient?

Bitcoin, like most people, was my first taste of a paradigm shift. The
first widely-adopted crypto-economic mechanism that provided the legal
abstraction of money. It had effectively created Digital Scarcity,
Bitcoin had provided a solution to the double-spending problem.
Furthermore, it had created the Blockchain, a socially immutable
database that could operate in hostile environments, the public domain,
but with a fixed set of operations. Bitcoin had provided fair and
inexpensive access for anyone wanting to participate and left a history
that anyone could independently audit, a property that fades the action
of book-burning of power regimes. It allows people to send value through
the internet without an intermediary, without questions or gate-keeping,
privately and securely - eroding top down control of institutions.

Then Ethereum came along, replacing a fixed instruction set and minimal
scripting language, moving away from “stored procedures” and replacing
it with a Turing complete Virtual Machine. With Ethereum, the Blockchain
became a world computer, capable of running Smart Contracts (arbitrary
code), for a price. This incremental innovation opens the flood gates on
what’s possible with Programmable Money.

We are witnessing the birth of a new trustless medium in which to
execute not just code, but law in. We’re giving anyone who is willing to
participate fair access to not just create new policy’s that can be used
between friends, but to create new ways of socially organizing that can
be deployed instantly and used globally, creating mass movements. We’re
moving into a world where agreements we join are not just default’s when
born, but contracts we enter into voluntarily, we can reclaim our
sovereignty.

# Why Status?

But for any of that to happen, we need to make this technology
accessible and ubiquitous for the people, as it currently stands it is
largely dependent on a technologists skillset. That’s where Status comes
in. Status goal is the mass-adoption of the best **public** Programmable
Blockchain, at the time of writing, this is Ethereum mainnet. Private
Blockchains gain their strength by resting on the existing legal
infrastructure, while this approach has its merits, private chains do
little to move civilization forward and stagnate the redesign of systems
that approximate and surpass our existing institutions.

If Ethereum is a World Computer, then Status aims to be a Operating
System, or Window Manager. It is the visual expression of the Ethereum
network, a user-friendly interface between people and machines alike (as
Ethereum makes no distinction with it’s address identifiers - Smart
Contracts are first-class citizens).

Status provides a way to find and transact with DApps and users.

We are a mobile-first experience, as of 2014 more people are on
smartphones and more time is spent on smartphones than laptop/desktops -
smartphones are the new personal computer. Status originally started as
Web 3.0 Browser, a ‘Mist for Mobile’, and is currently expressed as an
instant messenger, as a third of all time spent on a smartphone is
within an instant messenger, and instant messengers have the highest
amount of monthly active users, this allows us to increase the surface
area of adoption, allowing users to interact with Ethereum on a daily
basis.

Status should always adapt to how humans interact with their personal
computers on both the hardware and software levels, this includes the
inevitable change from Smartphones to Mixed Reality devices.

TODO and as such we should be striving for the best user experience
possible, some guiding principles

But Status is more than a product, it is an experiment in organization.

# Moving away from Product, to thinking to Networks

Of course, at the time of writing - designing, developing and shipping a
high quality Ethereum client is our first and foremost goal, but this is
just the expression of a belief in public Blockchains. This belief
exists in our collective minds, and together, our collective forms a
belief network.

This belief is mass adoption of a public Programmable Blockchain, or
Ethereum, and as such is not bound to Status as a product alone. Our job
is to strengthen and grow this network, create the means on how to
govern it and give birth to new Networks, just as the Ethereum network
has given birth to Status. This is the strength of open source
development and permission-less participation.

Forks in open source are something of a misnomer, instead code should be
viewed more like cultural text for an ideology. ‘Forks’ represent a
shift in thought and give rise to new networks of belief.

Open source projects historically have had a hard time to fund
themselves. Often they are carried by pure belief alone by a loose
collective of people who found each other through the internet. Often is
the case they must support themselves by support and consultation (which
disrupts and distracts from original belief), or depend on donations
from supports. If successful, maintainers may find their demand and
complaints outstrip their ability to offer support, there is simply no
means to scale with their users, except to encourage more developers and
work on it fulltime, but we all have lives to maintain.

Tokens offer a way to commoditize beliefs and incentivizes software
users to have an active role in the software governance and evangelism.
This has interesting side-benefits, we hypothesize this will become
network effects on steroids. If you’re having difficulty with this
concept, take a common currency, such as the USD, this is only valuable
because both parties believe in it, there reasons may be varied, but all
stems from it’s legitimacy, or it’s belief in the value of that coin,
even though today this is increasingly becoming backed by debt, rather
than any tangible store of value.

Our role is helping find and testing forms of decentralized governance,
to recreate typical functions found in organizations and adapt them to
work out in the open, in hostile environments.

# The Future

Discuss the Fourth Industrial Revolution (fulltime jobs thing of past,
freelancers), paint potential imagery of the future.

# Meaning and Values