## Getting Started

**歡迎來到狀態 Status\!**
這是以太坊，任何地方。以太坊無處不在。世界電腦在你的口袋裡。很多很酷且很神奇的東西很難知道從哪裡開始，但我想我們只是從一開始就開始。

一旦你下載了應用程序，安裝並打開它，它應該帶你進入與控制台(console)的聊天室：一個處於內部狀態的DApp，讓你設置你的賬戶並控制所有重要的東西（以及其他一些rad功能，我們將及時到達）。如果您想要恢復舊帳戶，則應該在左上方看到該選項，然後它會將您帶到登錄屏幕，您需要使用您創建的12字種子短語和密碼創建您希望恢復的帳戶。

![Image_01.png](Image_01.png
"Image_01.png")

正如你所看到的，我已經和控制台聊了很久（朋友，耶！）。在設置新帳戶時，控制台會向您發送“操作”消息，要求您設置並確認密碼。一旦提交，它就會關閉，並執行生成帳戶所需的瘋狂數學。這裡的UI概念是，當有人發送一個請求（在這種情況下）密碼，金錢或確認代碼等的動作消息時，可以點擊該消息，並且將插入適當的語法來響應該請求，隨後通過你的輸入。這就是盡可能直觀和簡單地與這些新技術進行交互。

還有一點需要注意的是左上角的“控制台”下方的“可用”。這意味著我的手機已經與ropsten測試網同步（狀態默認為Ropsten，但您也可以在“設置(setting)”下將其切換到Rinkeby測試網）。我運行的是android
7.0，並且通過wifi進行操作。我花了不到40分鐘的時間從頭開始同步，不過根據手機，操作系統和網絡差異有不同的報告。儘管如此，在手機上約40分鐘的同步時間只是瘋了。感謝Zsolt的精彩工作
[LES](https://github.com/ethcore/parity/wiki/Light-Ethereum-Subprotocol-\(LES\)).

You can optionally give your phone number to help status sync with your
existing contacts. This is not mandatory (we're all about privacy if you
are) and the app will work fine without it. Note that if you run into
any issues, you can just shake your phone and this should bring up a
screen that allows you to submit an error report directly to the status
team. You can select from the options what you want to do, but generally
it seems best to \`Report a Problem\`:

![Instabug1.png](Instabug1.png "Instabug1.png")

You should be able to select a colour to indicate the severity of the
issue on the second screen above. I really want to make sure that
Jarrad, Carl and the crew are on their toes, so I have gone for red
here. Hitting the forward button (top right) should take you to where
the magic really happens. ![Instabug2.png](Instabug2.png
"Instabug2.png") Please note the \`Take a screen recording\` button in
the bottom left. This is how the team prefers you to submit bug reports
as it is enormously helpful with seeing exactly what went wrong and so
providing insight into where to go to fix the issue. You can enter your
email, take a video and go ahead and submit. At which point we issue you
a massive thank you for being such a stellar alpha tester. Go you\!
![Instabug3.png](Instabug3.png "Instabug3.png")

## Actually Using the App

OK, now that we have the setup out the way, we can get into the really
fun stuff. Once you have generated your account with Console, you can
open either testnet faucet (depending on which network you're on) to get
some shweet test ether into your account so that you can go out and
convince actual people to be your friends too. Please do not open an
issue if this doesn’t happen - we can’t convince people to like you
(even if you do use the best tech around).

To open the faucet, tap the hamburger menu to the left of the chat box,
or just select the '/faucet' option above the keyboard input. Select the
'Status Testnet Faucet' and hit the blue arrow to send the message. You
should get a message back saying 'Faucet message has been received', and
some test ether should arrive shortly in your wallet.

![Image_02.png](Image_02.png "Image_02.png")

Seeing as we’re now finished chatting to Console for the moment, we can
hit the back button and this will take us into the Chats page:

<center>

![Image_03.png](Image_03.png "Image_03.png")

</center>

Here you can see all the lovely people that you have been chatting to.
It’s really straightforward and intuitive, so behave as you normally
would in WhatsApp or WeChat etc. Tapping a conversation will take you
into it, and you can use the bottom three tabs to navigate through the
Wallet, Chats, Discover and Contacts screen. You can also just swipe
right. Just do you.

Wallet used to be a DApp that lived in your contact, but we have
abstracted it away into its own native screen as we get closer to Beta
and start testing ERC20 token support, sending, receiving and exchange
functions and a bunch of other, visually-stunning ways of showing you
the value you control through Status. Swipe left from the contacts
screen to have a look around and see if your test Ether from the faucet
has arrived. ![Image_04.png](Image_04.png "Image_04.png")

Obviously, you want to be able to transact from the Wallet, so get a
friend's address and see if you can send them some Ether. Hit the Send
button and follow the prompts through our beautiful new transaction
screens. You'll see that Status asks for permission to access your
camera, but you only need to grant this in the case that you want to
scan someone's QR code. If you have an ETH address already copied, or
would like to send directly to one of your contacts in Status, you can
safely deny this permission and carry on along to select a different
option.

I had an address copied to my clipboard, so selected that option and
then input an amount of 0.01 ETH to send to that address:
![Image_11.png](Image_11.png "Image_11.png")

You'll be asked to use your password to sign the transaction and, once
you have done that, you should see this Success screen. We have been
extra cautious and advise people to wait for at least 12 confirmations
before being absolutely sure that the money has been sent. Future
versions of the wallet screen will make it much more obvious how many
confirmations each transaction in your history has. Make sure to explore
the rest of the wallet and go and take a look at your transaction
history to see what I mean here. There's still a host of features to
come, but this should be more than enough to whet your appetite and show
you what is possible from nothing more than a mobile phone.:
![Image_12.png](Image_12.png "Image_12.png")

Ok great, we can send transactions, awesome\! If you now hit 'Got It',
navigate back out of the wallet view and swipe right twice, or select
the Discover tab at the bottom, you will get to the Discover page:

![Image_05.png](Image_05.png "Image_05.png")

Discover is going to be one of the most crucial aspects of our product
going forward. This is the gateway through which you can find other
contacts and contracts on a decentralized network that are relevant and
interesting to you. Think of it like PageRank for the distributed
computing age. In Discover, you can see hashtags people are using and
discover all the different conversations going on. Swipe right through
the cards to see the most popular categories, or scroll down to see the
most recent updates.

If you want to make a message of your own appear here, you need to hit
the hamburger menu in the top left there and edit your status with the
hashtag you want to see appear here. Start a meme or hop onto an
existing one - it’s all up to you. You can also edit your name there,
unless you're amused by the anonymous handles we assign by default.
Here, I have updated my status to reflect the work being done on the
wiki, and changed my name to my preferred online handle:

![Image_06.png](Image_06.png "Image_06.png")

If you would like to make further changes to your profile, tap the 3
dots to the right of your name and avatar. Your profile page should look
like the below. Here, you can see account and device info, switch
between different test networks and show off a QR code if you ever need
someone to be able to scan your address info quickly.

![Image_07.png](Image_07.png "Image_07.png")

Tap your editable status field in order to edit your status again,
change your name, or upload a cool profile pic. Remember to include that
hashtag if you want it to appear on the Discover page.

Once that is all done and you’ve broadcast a status for all the world to
see, hit the back button and navigate to the Contacts page. Here, you
will find a full list of the people and DApps you have connected with
through Status. Don't stress though, a bunch of DApps also appear there
by default so you don't feel lonely at first. You can see that we have
split them into two groups for ease-of-use - the State of the DApps and
just normal DApps. State of the DApps are optimized to work well with
Status and provide a really slick, intuitive UX:

![Image_08.png](Image_08.png "Image_08.png")

These DApps all work in essentially the same way as Console - you can
open a chat with them, which will direct you to an in-app browser that
displays whatever is appropriate for that app. If no in-app browser
opens, that means the DApp has been built into a chatbot and should
provide you with a bunch of options for interacting with it in the form
of '/suggestions' above the keyboard input.

If you close your app or otherwise have an issue, when you reopen it,
you should be directed to a screen which looks like the below. Select
the account that belongs to you (in the case where you set up more than
one) and then put in the appropriate password and you should get back to
the chat screen:

<center>

![Image_09.png](Image_09.png "Image_09.png")

</center>

If that doesn’t work for you or your account doesn’t appear like mine,
hit the \`Recover access\` button at the bottom of the first screen and
follow the prompts to input the 12 word passphrase console gave you when
you first set stuff up and your password.

Happy sailing\!

## For the Adventurous

We’ve covered all the basic functionality as it stands, but there is so
much more that you can do with status. Most of this stuff will only
become available in the beta release or after, but developers around the
world should be getting really excited to start building dApps to live
alongside Flight Delays and Maker etc.

Though it is by no means complete yet, you can do a lot more than just
set your account up using Console - it is, after all, a full dApp of its
own. Go back to that chat and type `web3.` (the fullstop is important)
and `web3.eth.`:

![Image_10.png](Image_10.png "Image_10.png")

You should be able to see a whole bunch of suggestions for the sorts of
things you can do directly from Console, the most basic of which is
\`web3.eth.blockNumber\` which will return the current block number on
the testnet you are on. If this doesn’t blow your mind, I’m not sure
what will...

If you want to dive in even further and help develop the app, contribute
some code or otherwise get involved in the technical side of things,
here are the links you need:

1.  How to [build Status](Building_Status "wikilink") yourself.
2.  The latest nightlies for those with Android phones or Genymotion
    running (much easier than building):
    <http://artifacts.status.im:8081/artifactory/nightlies-local/>
3.  Our [API documentation](Status_API "wikilink") so you can figure out
    what `/debug` does and how to build your own
    [DApps](Make_A_DApp "wikilink") and
    [chatbots](Make_A_Bot "wikilink").

[Category:User Guide](Category:User_Guide "wikilink")
[Category:Developer
Documentation](Category:Developer_Documentation "wikilink")